in an effort to increase student mastery
through student engagement Geoff Bodine
and John Black have integrated their
sophomore world literature college prep
and AP World History classes currently
they are studying both World War one and
the novel All Quiet on the Western Front
we try to bring in as much as possible
in terms of not just literature and
history music technology you name it
whatever we can bring in art you'll see
if you look around the room all sorts of
art pieces that the students have done
we build a sense of community in this in
this program of the students that go
through this class kind of leave it
feeling like they belong to a little
small country of their own for a while
through the use of video slides
historical quotes artwork and artifacts
Oh Dean and black highly engaged the
students in order to increase student
mastery of the historical content
they've obviously been in the midst of a
battle it's over and now they're trying
to clear out the trenches as much as
possible all right they don't want
disease they don't want infection they
don't want all those things that we've
talked about so far 13th January 1915
how is the only word descriptive of the
weather out here and the state of the
ground it rains every day the trenches
are mud and water up to one's neck
rendering some impassable but where it
is up to the waist we have to make our
way long cheerfully lots of men have
been sent off with slight frostbite have
you ever been on the cold and your
fingers start to hurt because it's so
cold well imagine you can't get away
from that what happens you get frostbite
right we take World War one for which
for me in both high school and college
was just kind of an abstract war that I
really didn't feel any connection with
and we've actually made it the more
personal war to them the way my father
might have made World War two personal
to me we'd like you to write a letter
home
to your parents from the trenches as if
you were world war one soldier or nurse
and in the letter we want you to include
some of the details some of the things
we've talked about